Describe "No upgrade detected" situation in installer (#415)
xcp-ng/xcp-ng-org: docs/troubleshooting/installation-upgrade.md

---------------------------------
```

#### How to check if a running install is using UEFI or legacy BIOS?

On the host, run `efibootmgr`.

- If you see `EFI variables are not supported on this system.` you're running on legacy BIOS.
- If you see some EFI boot entries, you’re running on UEFI.

> ### First-boot service never completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### First-boot service won't complete
```

A few tasks are normally done during first boot, as part of finalizing the installation.  Each of them leaves a "done" stamp when they finish, and as a sanity check the installer requires a few of them to have indeed succeeded, or will not consider the installation as upgradable.

One possibility is that the host was never fully booted after it was last installed or upgraded, but there can be conditions preventing one single first-boot service to complete.

Diagnosing this currently requires looking into the installation log. See [above](#during-installation-or-upgrade) to access the log file.

In this case you would see one either or two log lines like the following.  If the system never booted, typically both lines are present:

```
Cannot upgrade nvme0n1, expected file missing: var/lib/misc/ran-storage-init (installation never booted?)
Cannot upgrade nvme0n1, expected file missing: var/lib/misc/ran-network-init (installation never booted?)
```

> If only the "storage-init" line is present, get more information from `storage-init.service` from the host (after rebooting into the original XCP-ng you want to upgrade).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only see the "storage-init" error line, check the logs of `storage-init.service` on the host (after rebooting into the original XCP-ng version you’re upgrading from).
```

Author: applied
